Welcome to Truck Box Builder, an online tool to help the welder output the cut list visually and numerically for a custom truck tool box by inputting its final dimensions. This idea came to me when my welder friend was talking about how he’d like to expand his truck tool box business. He explained to me how it’d be nice if there was a way to input the dimensions of a box he’d like to build and it could output a cut list with all of the added lengths for the bends he’d need to make. This way he could understand instantly what the pieces needed to make the custom box will look like and their dimensions. Therefore, build the boxes faster and more accurately knowing exactly what he needed to cut to make that custom box.

It all starts with a form with inputs for length, width and height. There's a calculate button that when pressed runs the empty() function that does some error checking to see that user didn’t forget any inputs. Also the min and max on the inputs check to make sure that the values entered are within the limits that are practically doable for this type of box and within the limitations of the machinery in my friend’s shop used to cut and bend the material. If all the requirements are met the form is submitted and the calculations are made. The page is stopped from reloading by the if else statement at the end of function() so the information is not lost.

The length, width and height values are pulled from their input fields, converted to numbers and stored as variables. Then, for each part of the box, calculations are made to account for the bends needed to make the lip of the box for the gasket of the door and the bends needed for the ribs to make them ridgid to support the door. These x and y values for the cut list are then added to the table.

To convert the decimal values for the cut list parts to mixed numbers so they are easier to read, was achieved using the math.js library. First I used Math.floor() to round down to the nearest integer. Then, to get the decimal part I subtracted the rounded down integer from the number. After that, I checked if the decimal part was equal to zero and if so returned the integer part so as to prevent it from outputting the fraction 0/1 when using math.fraction() with zero. To return the mixed number I used the integer rounded down and ran the decimal part through math.fraction() and then math.format() to get a fraction. Lastly, I put a space between the two to create a mixed number and returned it.

To make the dynamically rendered rectangles I used an HTML div element with a border. The initial values for the blueprint, the most popular box dimensions, are hardcoded into the CSS and HTML for each part’s rectangle so they load matching the tables data. This allows for a quick reference on load for most of the boxes being made. To dynamically change the x and y values for the pieces on the blueprint, the x and y values are multiplied by the scale and then combined with px on the end so that the CSS can read it as pixels. Then, I used Javascript  to change the CSS height and width of the different parts div rectangles. Then, the x and y values are added to separate div elements and put on their respective axis using CSS to numerically represent the x and y coordinates on the blueprint for each piece. After this is done for every piece of the box, the function stops running and outputs the dynamic table and blueprint for the box’s dimensions.
