Initially when you load Truck Box Builder it has the most common dimensions of truck tool box that my welder friend makes. He is the person whom this tool was created for to save time so he can build more truck tool boxes faster. This is setup like this to save time when he needs a reference of what to cut for the most common box size he makes without having to input those dimensions every time.

To use Truck Box Builder with custom dimensions, you use the three inputs above the table to add your length, width and height of the final dimensions of the truck tool box you want to build. The inputs must be entered to the nearest half inch and in decimal form. There are minimum and maximum values for all three dimensions because of the limitations of the design of these boxes and the equipment used by my friend in his shop to make them. For the length input the minimum value is 24 and the maximum value is 72. For the width and height inputs the minimum value is 12 and the maximum value is 30. Once all three values are entered you click on the calculate button to output the results.

The results are outputted in a table below the inputs for the dimensions of the box. The table contains the pieces that need to be cut to make that specific box. The dimensions are all in inches represented by mixed numbers. The dimensions all take into account the extra material needed to make the bends required to make the box’s final dimensions equal to the users input. These bends are used to form the lip for the seal on the door and on the ribs the rigid shape to support the door.

Also outputted is a dynamic renderinging of the different parts needed to make that box, blueprint style. The pieces are in order of the table left to right on the blueprint and have the x and y values labeled with mixed numbers in inches. The pieces are outputted in scale to each other so the user can visually see everything. Pieces that require multiples of that piece are only outputed once.
